


[Name of project]
<DevOps>/<PoC> Plan
This plan is also applicable to a Proof of Concept (PoC)

Version History
Date	Version	Author	Description
			
			
			
			

Approval History
Name	Title	Signature	Date
	CI/CD 		
			
			

Review History
Name	Title	Signature	Date	Version
	Requester			
				
				
				

Distribution list
Name	Title	Signature	Date	Version
	DevOps  Team			



 
Table of Contents
1. Document Overview	4
1.1. Purpose of this document	4
1.2. Terms and Abbreviations	4
1.3. References	4
2. Pilot Scope	5
3. Pilot Objectives	6
4. Pilot Resources	7
4.1. DevOps Reference Group	7
4.2. DevOps Participants	7
4.3. DevOps Team (include technical resources as well as support resources during training and vendor resources)	7
5. DevOps Costs	8
6. DevOps Schedule	9
7. Success Criteria and Metrics	11
8. DevOps Evaluation	13
9. DevOps Risks	14
Appendix A – Requirements Definition	15
Appendix B – DevOps tool evaluation and selection	17
Appendix C – Training Plan	18
Appendix D – Supportability Matrix	19
Appendix E - Communication Strategy	20
Appendix F – Key Questions to Answer About the Pilot	24

 
1. Document Overview
1.1. Purpose of this document
[This plan analyses the opportunity to conduct a pilot project, defines pilot main characteristics and identifies the activities, schedule, and deliverables of a Pilot Project. The plan also discusses resource requirements; interfaces and dependencies with other groups; and risk.]
1.2. Terms and Abbreviations
[List any abbreviations or jargon terms that are used in the document. It should be borne in mind that the document has a primarily non-technical audience.]
 
Term/Abbreviation	Meaning
CI	Continuous Integration
CD 	Continuous Delivery
PoC	Proof of Concept

1.3. References
Include the ‘Key questions to answer about the pilot’ guidelines and any other documentation used during the pilot/PoC planning

Document	URL
‘Key questions to answer about the pilot’ guidelines	

 
 
2. DevOps Scope
[Define the scope of the devops by clearly stating which functions (based on pre-feasibility study), This devops scope for entire project lifecycle.
On each and every phase testing should happen.

Phases that are available in the devops as shown in the below diagram
.1) plan 
2) Code 
3) Build 
4) Test
5) Release 
7)Deploy
8)Operate
 
3. DevOps Objectives
[Explicitly state the objectives of the POC . Use the objectives to identify criteria for measuring the success of your pilot.

E.g.
•	Ensure that the system adds value to Continuous Integration and Continuous delivery
•	Ensure that the system works properly in the business environment
•	Ensure that the design meets the business requirements
•	Test the build and deployment process
•	Gather information for estimating actual hardware and supportability requirements]
 
4. DevOps tools 
[List all key resources, including their role]
4.1. Devops tools kit
Resource	Role
Netbean 
Ant/Maven
Git/GitHub
Jenkins
Artifact Repository 
Chef 	IDE
Build 
Source Control
Continuous Integration
Artifact Repository
DevOps Tool 

 
Responsibilities: [include installation, configuration and documentation activities]
 
5. DevOps Costs
[Provide a breakdown of the pilot cost including labour, hardware, licenses, etc and who will fund it.]
  
6. DevOps Schedule
[The following is an example of a pilot schedule:]
Key DevOps Activities

Activities	Expected Completion Date	Responsible	Actual Completion date
Request information from solutions’ vendors as per solutions identified at the pre-feasibility study stage		Business Analyst	
Hold vendor demonstrations of solutions identified at the pre-feasibility study stage		Business Analyst	
Evaluate solutions and select the one(s) to be piloted		Business Analyst	
Produce Test Cases		Business Analyst	
Purchase software solution license for trial and any hardware and additional software required for testing (procurement)		TBC	
Set up infrastructure & network, as per software architecture details		DevOps -Technology Services	
Deploy and configure software solution to be piloted		DevOps-Technology Services	
Configure university applications that will interface with the software solution to be piloted		Pilot Team -Technology Services	
Prepare data to be used for the software test		Business Analyst, Requester	
Continuous Deployment and Continuous Delivery		DevOps Team.	


  
7. Success Criteria and Metrics
[The Success Criteria and Metrics section defines the pilot’s success criteria and the specific measurements that will be taken to determine the level of success. A pilot can be declared “complete” or be graded in terms such as "partially successful" or "unsuccessful." Each measurement description should include a target metric and an acceptable range of values. The success criteria may fall into the following categories:

•	System performance: i.e.
Category	Measurement description	Target metric	Acceptable range of values
System Performance	Manage concurrent users 	No of concurrent users	[10000 – 26000 concurrent users] 
Other measurement descriptions are: security, scalability, load, impact on standard operating environment & University computer standards. 

•	Operations cost: i.e.
Category	Measurement description	Target metric	Acceptable range of values
Operations cost	Reduction in support cost	Service Desk support (hrs.) per month	[1hr per month – 5hrs per month] 

•	Stability –down time: i.e.
Category	Measurement description	Target metric	Acceptable range of values
Stability – down time	Minimal down time per trimester	hrs.	[4hrs – 6hrs]
Other measurement descriptions are: reliability, sustainability

•	User performance: i.e.
Category	Measurement description	Target metric	Acceptable range of values
User performance	Reduction of time to complete a task using the software piloted	Time to complete a task (i.e.: time to create a test with 10 questions)	[5 minutes – 10 minutes] 

•	User satisfaction: i.e.
Category	Measurement description	Target metric	Acceptable range of values
User satisfaction	Satisfaction with the software piloted 	Agree/Disagree	[90% - 100% of participants  agree] 






•	Business goals: i.e.
Category	Measurement description	Target metric	Acceptable range of values
Business goals	Assist student learning 	Agree/Disagree	[90% - 100% of student participants  agree] 
Business goals	Assist staff in developing best practices in blended learning	Agree/Disagree	[90% - 100% of academic participants agree]


]
 
8. DevOps Evaluation
[The DevOps Evaluation section describes how the results of the pilot will be evaluated. It includes the process by which lessons learnt will be incorporated into the final solution deployment. It describes the method(s) for assessing the quality of the pilot deployment process (e.g. user surveys, peer reviews, user interviews, etc.). It also describes the process for identifying, assigning, and following up on action items related to deployment or product issues identified during the pilot.

Data Collection Tools: Surveys, Focus group/Workshop, Cost/benefit analysis.]

 
9. DevOps Risks
[Provide details of all risks relevant to the proposed project that have been identified to date. Consider the following Legislation stated on the University’s Legal & Risk Website:
http://www.legislation.sa.gov.au/LZ/C/A/STATE%20RECORDS%20ACT%201997/CURRENT/1997.8.UN.PDF
http://www.comlaw.gov.au/Series/C2004A03712 
. An example table is included below;]
Ref #	Risk	Likelihood	Consequence	Risk Rating	Control
1	Technology Services resources & academic staff (who submitted the trial request) are not available when needed	B	2	Medium	-During pilot planning, Technology Services resources should be allocated to the pilot project as required.
-Careful communication (including next activities and timeframe) to all parties so as to ensure resources are made available when needed.
Despite these risks the project would appear to be viable at this stage, and it would appear that each of these risks would be able to be effectively mitigated 
Appendix B – DevOops tools evaluation and selection results
[This section is included for appendices as required. Replicate the section if more appendices are needed. Remember to update the Table of Contents for the document to pick up the change.]

Chef and Puppet evaluation and comparison matrix.

 
Appendix D – Supportability Matrix
[This section is included for appendices as required. Replicate the section if more appendices are needed. Remember to update the Table of Contents for the document to pick up the change]

Name	Contact Details	Role	Responsibility (i.e.: first point of contact when raising issues, environment support, software defects resolution)
			
			
 
Appendix F – Key Questions to Answer About the DevOps tools implementation

